# Daily Research Journal

Date: 2026-06-13

## Time Spent
DSA: 2 hr
Attention Is All You Need: 45 mins
NumPy: 2 hrs
Prepared for Interview Of Qubit Force QCSE Intern

---

## What I Studied

- Linear Algebra
- Attention Is All You Need
- NumPy Linear algebra operations
- C++ STL (Nesting of STLs)

---

## Key Insights

- Encoder And Decoder Machanism.
- Nested STLs can make the complex tasks eaasy.
- Matrix operations are fundamental to modern ML.

---

## Questions

1. Why did Transformers replace LSTMs?
2. When should i use normal sets and when to  use multisets

---

## Coding Work

- Implemented matrix multiplication
- Practiced NumPy linear algebra operations
- Solved 2 Hackerrank problems (STL based)

---

## Problems Faced

- Difficulty understanding Sorting intervals like merging and inserting.
- Some Confusion in linear algebra.

---

## Research Connections

Today's learning contributes to:
- Cross product From Scratch
- What is encoder and decoder
- Basics of  attention machanism

---

## Reflection

Attention appears to rely heavily on matrix multiplication.
A stronger understanding of linear algebra will likely make Transformer papers easier to understand.
Sometimes oppurtinuties come unexpectedly like yesterday which is polaris and today Qubit force intern which i appied one month ago should see how will turrn out 

---

## Tomorrow
should start tomorrow since today i majorly prepared for inteview
- Complete essential NumPy operations
- Read Transformer Section 4
- Continue Linear Algebra
- Start the Searching Techniques
